Difference Between HTTP1.1 VS HTTP2:

Introduction:

HTTP is a Hyper Text Transfer Protocal Developed by Timothy Berners-Lee
in 1989 as a Communication standard for the World Wide Web. More specifically, 
HTTP is the method computers and servers use to request and send informations.

HTTP1.1:

The first usable version of HTTP was created in 1997. Because it went through several
stages of development, this first version of HTTP was called HTTP/1.1.This is The 1st 
Standardized Protocal For World Wide Web, This version is still in use on the web.HTTP 
is a top-level application protocol that exchanges information between a client computer
and a local or remote web server. In this process, a client sends a text-based request 
to a server by calling a method like GET or POST. In response, the server sends a resource
like an HTML page back to the client.


HTTP2:

In 2015, A new version of HTTP called HTTP/2 was created as The SPDY protocol, developed
primarily at Google with the intention of reducing web page load latency by using techniques
such as compression, multiplexing, and prioritization. From the beginning, many browsers 
supported this standardization effort, including Chrome, Opera, Internet Explorer, and 
Safari. Due in part to this browser support, there has been a significant adoption rate
of the protocol since 2015, with especially high rates among new sites.

HTTP1.1 VS HTTP2:

HTTP/1.1 loads resources one after the other, so if one resource cannot be loaded, it 
blocks all the other resources behind it. In contrast, HTTP/2 is able to use a single 
TCP connection to send multiple streams of data at once sothat no one resource blocks 
any other resource. HTTP/2 does this by splitting data into binary-code messages and 
numbering these messages so that the client knows which stream each binary message 
belongs to.

Example:(For Better Understanding)

Imagine that Alice wants to read a novel that her friend Bob wrote, but both Alice 
and Bob only communicate through the regular mail. Alice sends a letter to Bob and 
asks Bob to send her his novel. Bob decides to send the novel HTTP/1.1-style: He 
mails one chapter at a time, and he only mails the next chapter after receiving a 
reply letter from Alice confirming that she received the previous chapter. Using this 
method of content delivery, it takes Alice many weeks to read Bob's novel.

Now imagine that Bob decides to send Alice his novel HTTP/2-style: In this case, he 
sends each chapter of the novel separately (to stay within the postal service's size 
limits) but all at the same time. He also numbers each chapter: Chapter 1, Chapter 2,
 etc. Now, Alice receives the novel all at once and can assemble it in the correct 
order on her own time. If a chapter is missing, she may send a quick reply asking for 
that specific chapter, but otherwise the process is complete, and Alice can read the 
novel in just a few days.

In HTTP/2, data is sent all at once, much like Bob when he sends Alice multiple 
chapters at once. And just like Bob, developers get to number the chapters in HTTP/2. 
They can decide if the text of a webpage loads first, or the CSS files, or the 
JavaScript, or whatever they feel is most important for the user experience.